

--- Page 1 ---

1 
 
Presentation of the University of Buea 
The University of Buea was created in 1992 and chartered in 1993 as the only English-speaking University 
out of the then six State universities in Cameroon.  It started  effectively in May 1993 in spite of the 
economic crisis facing the country in the early 90s, the aura o f devaluation of the currency and acute 
shortage of human, material and financial resources.  The Unive rsity boldly started with 768 students 
enrolled in three faculties.  The University currently has 07 f aculties, 1 school and 2 colleges.  The entire 
campus is networked and liked to the internet. 
 
Mission 
The mission of the University of Buea is to provide opportuniti es for quality education through teaching 
and research in an environment that is conducive to such pursuits and in ways that respond to market forces. 
 
Conceived in the English-speaking tradition, the University of Buea seeks to foster the essence of that 
system while situating itself within the larger bilingual and multicultural context of Cameroon. 
 
Its teaching and research programmes emphasize relevance, encou rage tolerance and prom ote creative, 
critical and independent thinking. 
 
ORIENTATION 
Orientation shall be done at two levels: 
- General Orientation 
- Academic Orientation in the Faculties and Departments 
General Orientation will involve exposition on the following: 
- Code of conduct of all students 
- Students rights, privileges and obligations 
- Academic good standing 
- Sports and Recreation 
- Registration Procedures 
- Health Insurance Benefits 
- Medical Examination 
- The Library 
Academic orientation will involve explanation to students (new/ returning) about courses offered in the 
respective programmes and the details of those they need to reg ister for.  This orientation will be carried 
out by the Faculties/Departments during the registration.  General orientation for all students, particularly 
new students, will take place at the end of the registration process before classes begin. 
 
Step by Step Procedure for Online Registration (Applies to Newly Admitted and Returning Students) 
- Payment of registration fee 
- Filling of form B 
 
Registration for courses is exclusively online. From the University website (www.ubuea.cm), find the link 
to course registration on the homepage and follow the ensuing s teps to register for courses. Using the 
University Internet facility and most especially the IT Centre will guarantee a hitch free registration 
procedure. 
 
Section A:  General 
1. Go to the University Website (www.ubuea.cm) and download your admission letter, which shows your 
matriculation number and other relevant information. 
 

--- Page 2 ---

  
2. Pay your registration fee (60,000F for fresh students, 50,000F for returning students) into your 
Faculty Account in any of the following banks:  BICEC Buea and BICEC Limbe, SCB Limbe, Banque 
Atlantique (any of its branches Nationwide) or other appropriate structure designated by UB authorities. 
3. Proceed to the UB Health Centre (situated next to the second ga te into the University) and or the 
Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory at the Faculty of Science and do  your medical check.  You will obtain 
an attestation. 
4. Attend orientation and make sure that you get a ticket (Step 2 and 3 can be done in any order). 
5. Take your bank receipt, medical attestation and orientation ticket to the Receipt Control Office (behind 
the Faculty of Arts) and present them to those in charge.  You are now ready for registration. 
 
REGISTRATION PROCEDURES (FRESHMEN) 
The University of Buea welcomes all freshmen to its campus for this academic year.  As a freshman, you 
are requested to follow the under-mentioned registration proced ures very strictly to enable you begin 
classes effectively.  The registration procedures are as follows: 
 
Step 1:  Payment of Registration Fees 
Payment of registration fees should be done using the online portal through MTN Mobile Money or directly 
or indirectly at an appropriate financial institution designated by the authorities of the University of Buea.  
Students should ensure that their fees are paid into their resp ective Faculty/school bank accounts as 
indicated on their admission letters.   
 
The deadline for the payment of registration fees by freshmen w ill be announced by a notice of the Vice-
Chancellor and all students are called upon to respect the deadline.  Those who will not fulfill their financial 
obligations by the stipulated deadline will lose their places. 
 
Step 2:  Verification and Validation of Receipts 
T h e  o r i g i n a l  r e c e i p t  a n d  f o u r  p h o t o c o p i e s ,  t o g e t h e r  w i t h  t h e  a dmission letter should be presented for 
clearance to the Receipts Control Service of the Finance Office  located at the rear of the Faculty of Arts 
building. 
 
The Receipts Control Service will retain the original of the re ceipt while the four photocopies will be 
stamped and handed back to the student.  This copy marked “ STUDENT’S COPY” is to be kept by the 
student.  This copy may be very helpful in case the student los es or misplaces his/her university identity 
card. 
 
Step 3:  Compulsory Medical Examination 
The photocopy of receipt marked “HEALTH CENTRE COPY” should be attached to the test results and 
reports from a Government Hospital or University of Buea Health  Centre and presented at the Health 
Centre of the University.  The Health Centre will in turn issue an attestation which the student will present 
at his/her Faculty for registration. 
 
Test results and reports expected at the Health Centre at the time of registration of freshmen are: 
a) Chest X-Ray 
b) Blood sugar level 
c) Weight and height 
d) Blood pressure 
e) Vision  
f) Hearing 
g) Tuberculosis 
h) Urine analysis 
 

--- Page 3 ---

  
All these tests should be done either in a Government Hospital or at the Health Centre of the University 
of Buea.  Fresh students who opt to do the tests in the Univers ity Health Centre will pay a fee of 
5.000FCFA.  The test results should be sealed, marked “CONFIDENTIAL” and addressed to the Head 
of the Health Centre, University of Buea. 
 
Step 4: Orientation 
The schedule for Orientation will be published by the respectiv e Faculties.  All freshmen must undergo 
Orientation before they are issued with course registration forms (Form B) by their respective Departments.  
Students will be issued with tickets to show as proof that they have undergone orientation. 
 
Step 5:  Course Registration at Faculties 
The photocopy of fees receipt marked “FACULTY COPY” should be presented to the Faculty, together 
with the attestation from the University Health Centre and the Orientation ticket for the issuance of 
registration forms and subsequent registration for courses.  Students should take note that Faculties will 
not register any student without these three documents. 
 
Step 6:  Production of ID Cards 
The last photocopy of receipt marked “ID CARD CENTRE” will be presented at the time and place that 
will be announced by the service in charge of producing university ID cards. 
 
Students are advised that if they have problems with their regi stration, they should seek assistance from 
staff of the University, preferably those in their host Departments. 
 
HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS 
Each student of the University of Buea is required to undergo a  medical examination at the beginning of 
each academic year before registration.  The examination is obligatory. 
The University provides health insurance for all registered students with the following benefits: 
-  Reimbursement of medical expenses  
    for all serious illness         - 350,000FCFA maximum 
-  Death through illness     - 250,000FCFA  
-  Death by accident      - 500,000FCFA 
- Physical disability after accident                    - 500,000FCFA 
- Medical expenses incurred after accident       -   50,000FCFA 
- Funeral expenses (transport, casket)                - 300,000FCFA 
 
To benefit from the insurance policy 
- Each student mush have registered in the University of Buea Hea lth Centre for the current academic 
year; 
- Each student must have undergone the annual systematic medical examination 
- All medical conditions must have been reported to the Universit y Health Centre or referred by the 
University Health Centre to another medical Centre 
 
Students are also informed that those who will not do the medical examination will not be allowed to 
register or sit in for any University examination. 
 
The period of the medical examination goes along side payment of fees and registration. 
 
Students are to do the medical examination early so as to avoid  congestion during the registration period.  
The procedure to be followed is specified in the notice to students on registration procedures. 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 4 ---

  
REGISTRATION IN THE FACULTIES 
 
Students shall return to their respective Faculty Offices, wher e they shall be given the appropriate forms 
for the registration of courses. 
 
The registration procedure at the Faculties/Schools will be as follows: 
a) A student shall complete his/her form by indicating a Y or N after the appropriate course and getting 
them signed by the respective academic staff that have been des ignated.  For those courses not 
indicated on the forms, students will be required to fill the a ppropriate Course Code, Title, Credit 
Value Status, and have the slot signaled. 
b) Heads of Department/Coordinators of Programmes shall appoint members of teaching staff for the 
purpose of signing in students for the different course groupin g offered by the 
Department/programme. 
c) Full names (as they appear on birth certificates) must be used at all times. 
d) Registration of courses is not complete until all complete form s are submitted personally to the 
Faculty Office and receipted for by the return of a signed copy of the form (student’s copy). 
e) Dean of Faculty/Director of School are to appoint Heads of Depa rtment/Programme Coordinators 
under the leadership of Faculty Office/Secretary General to ver ify and sign Registration forms on 
behalf of the Dean/Director. 
f) Students who fail to register for a course shall not be allowed to sit the examination in that course.  
Where the student sits the examination for a course, the result s will be cancelled and in addition 
he/she may face disciplinary sanctions. 
 
UNIVERSITY IDENTITY CARDS 
During the registration exercise for freshmen, they are expecte d to report to the Admission and Records 
Office with their signed Form B, proof of payment of fees and s igned health clearance for their identity 
cards to be issued.  The identity cards are valid for the durat ion of the programme.  It is imperative that 
students keep their cards in good condition and carry them at a ll times.  Replacement cost in case of loss 
or destruction is 5.000F. 
Students whose ID cards have expired will be required to report to the Receipts Control Service with their 
expired cards, their copy of signed Form B, the original stamped “student’s copy” or bank receipt showing 
full payment of registration fees. 
 
For those who have lost their ID cards, they should present the ir signed Form B, the original stamped 
“student’s copy” of bank receipt showing full payment of regist ration fees and a receipt of payment of 
5.000F from the Accounting Office for replacement. 
 
REGISTRATION PROCEDURE (RETURNING STUDENTS) 
 
Returning students of the University of Buea are hereby informed that registration procedures are follows: 
 
Step 1:  Payment of Registration Fees 
Students should pay their registration fees through MTN Mobile Money into their respective Faculty bank 
accounts at Banque Atlantique Limbe/UB Campus or BICEC Buea as the case may be.  Registration 
fee for students of Cameroonian Nationality is 50,000FCFA per s e s s i o n .   T h i s  c a n  b e  p a i d  i n  o n e  
installment or in two installments of 25,000FCFA each. 
 
The deadline for payment of registration fees by students who wish to register for the academic year (first 
installment or full pay) will be specified in a notice by the V ice-Chancellor.  However, the deadline for 
payment of balance of registration fees for those who opt to pay in two installments will not exceed January 
of each year. 
 

--- Page 5 ---

  
Step 2:  Verification and Validation of Receipts 
Students should write their Registration Numbers and programmes  at the top right hand corner of the 
original and three photocopies of their receipts and present th em for clearance to the Receipts Control 
Service of the Finance Office at the rear of the Faculty of Arts building. 
 
The Receipts Control Service will retain the original receipt w hile the three photocopies will be stamped 
and handed back to the student.  The copy marked “ STUDENT’S COPY” is to be kept by the student.  
Students are strongly advised to clip this copy to the student’ s copy of their Form B and keep for their 
personal records.  These copies may be very helpful in case the  student loses or misplaces his/her 
identification card. 
 
Students who owe registration fees for previous years will have  to make such payments in full plus the 
required penalties before their receipts for the current year are validated. 
 
Step 3:  Compulsory Medical Examination 
The photocopy of receipt marked “HEALTH CENTRE COPY” should be attached to the test results and 
reports from a GovernmentHospital or University of Buea Health Centre and presented at the Health Centre 
of the University.  The Health Centre will in turn issue an att estation which the student will present at 
his/her Faculty for registration. 
 
Test results and reports expected at the Health Centre at the time of registration of freshmen are:\ 
a) Weight and height 
b) Blood sugar level 
c) Blood pressure 
d) Vision 
e) Hearing 
f) Tuberculosis 
g) Urine analysis 
All the above tests must be done either in a Government Hospital or at the Health Centre of the University 
of Buea.  Returning students who opt to do the tests in the Uni versity Health Centre will pay a fee of 
3,000FCFA.  The results should be sealed, marked “CONFIDENTIAL” and addressed to the Head of the 
Health Centre, University of Buea. 
 
Step 4: Course Registration at Faculties/Schools 
The copy of the receipt marked “FACULTY COPY” should be presented to the Faculty, together with the 
attestation from the University Health Centre for the issuance of Forms B and subsequent registration for 
courses.  Students should take note that Faculties will not issue or sign  Forms B without these two 
documents. 
 
Note: 
Students who suspended their studies or were suspended by the U niversity are required to obtain 
authorization for resumption of studies from the Registrar. 
 
Students who have lost their university identity cards will hav e to pay the sum of 5,000F for a new card.  
Those who show evidence that they were never issued identity ca rds or whose cards have expired will be 
issued one at no cost. 
 
Students are called upon to observe these procedures to enable them start off with effective lectures on the 
dates indicated in the academic calendar so that the academic y ear runs smoothly for them as well as the 
academic and administrative staff of the university. 
 

--- Page 6 ---

  
CODE OF CONDUCT OF ALL STUDENTS 
As a corporate institution, the University of Buea accepts the responsibility of providing/ensuring the most 
congenial atmosphere for the academic, physical and moral devel opment of its students.  The following 
guidelines are set out for this purpose: 
a) The University expects students to conduct themselves decently and responsibly at all times, 
whether on or off campus. 
b) No student shall engage his/her fellow student or any member of the University or public in physical 
scuffles. 
c) While it is not required that students appear in suits and tie or expensive clothes, they should be 
neat and presentable at all times.  This applies especially to their appearance in class and in the 
restaurant. 
d) All students should contribute to the cleanliness of the facilities put at their disposal.  They should 
avoid littering and should make maximum use of the dustbins provided. 
e) No item of furniture should be moved out of the Common Room, Restaurant, Classrooms or Library 
without permission. 
f) The full cost of lost or damaged property will be borne by the student responsible for such loss or 
damage. 
g) The junior staff of the University (messengers, drivers, security men, yardmen etc) are responsible 
officers of the University: Students should not, on any account, insult or assault them.  Any student 
aggrieved by any employee of the University shall make a report of such grievance to the Director 
of Students’ Affairs who shall take the matter up with the appropriate quarters of the University. 
h) No student may be absent from class without prior authorization except for reasons of health which 
should be justified.  Students are to be punctual to class, sho w due respect to their teachers and 
maintain order and quiet in the class. 
i) Students are advised not to smoke as this is dangerous to their  health.  In any case, no smoking is 
allowed in the Administrative buildings, Restaurant, Classrooms , Lecture halls, Laboratories and 
Library. 
j) No liquor may be sold or consumed on the University Campus befo re noon.  Any student found 
drunk or misbehaving under the influence of alcohol either on o r off-campus shall be severely 
disciplined. 
k) The possession and/or consumption of any dangerous drug is proh ibited.  Any student found 
contravening this regulation shall be summarily dismissed from the university. 
l) Any student found stealing shall be severely disciplined in acc ordance with the University 
Regulations.  Those found stealing outside the University premises may be handed over to the law 
enforcement officers. 
 
RIGHTS, PRIVILEGES AND OBLIGATIONS OF STUDENTS 
For students to achieve their goals in the University, they are  entitled to some undeniable rights.  For the 
University Community at large to facilitate the attainment of these goals, students owe the University some 
obligations in exchange for the privileges which the institution offers. 
 
A. Rights 
1. The right of membership to the University Community 
2. The right to receive tuition in the courses for which they have been duly registered 
3. The right to evaluate teaching 
4. The right to be examined in accordance with the approved rules and regulations governing the 
award of degrees and diplomas. 
5. The right to be heard in accordance with the rules governing th e fundamental rights of freedom of 
speech and natural justice. 
6.  
 

--- Page 7 ---

  
B. Privileges 
1. The privilege of using the name of the University to protect th emselves in all honesty and lawful 
transactions. 
2. The privilege of using university facilities to enhance the attainment of their ultimate objectives in 
the University. 
3. The privilege to be certified at the end of their degree programme at the University upon satisfaction 
of the requirements. 
4. The privilege of receiving medical care on campus within the li mits of the available resources 
provided they have been duly registered at the University Health Centre. 
5. The privilege of living in the University Halls of Residence on  the payment of the prescribed 
accommodation fees. 
 
C. Obligations 
Consequent upon the rights and privileges the University confer s on students as members, they are 
obliged to: 
1. Observe the rules and regulations governing academic programmes such as registering for courses 
as well as sitting for examinations at the appropriate times (see general regulations governing first 
degrees and regulations on examinations) 
2. Respect and obey constituted authorities of the University 
3. Show consideration for other students and for staff of the University 
4. Treat premises which they may rent off-campus in a responsible manner and observe the rules and 
regulations governing such premises. 
5. Abstain from doing anything whatsoever that can bring the name of the University into disrepute 
or embarrass its authorities. 
6. Pay fees at rates as determined from time to time by the University authorities. 
 
Caution Fees 
Caution fees must be paid together with all other Registration fees by all new students before they can 
register at the University.  The caution fee is refundable when  the student leaves the University on 
presentation of the following: 
 
a) Attestation from the library that the student is not keeping any books belonging to the University; 
b) Attestation from the Sports Officer that the student is not keeping any sports equipment; 
c) Attestation from the Accounting Officer that the student owes no monies to the University; 
d) Attestation from the Director of Students’ Affairs that no dama ge has been caused to the room or 
furniture assigned to the student and that the furniture in the room is complete. 
 
DISCIPLINE 
Students are reminded that the following acts constitute a breach of discipline: 
a) Any acts incompatible with the rules governing university property and dignity; 
b)
 Unauthorized absence from class; 
c) Direct or indirect participation in acts likely to jeopardize the smooth functioning of the university 
such as rows, acts of violence, destruction of property, delibe rate organization of the boycott of 
classes, disturbance at lectures, unwanted demonstration on campus or highways; 
d) Any acts of subversion; 
e) Examination fraud. 
It should be recalled that in keeping with the provision of the decree No. 93/027 of 19 January 1993 laying 
down common provisions for all universities, punishment for bre ach of discipline range from a simple 
warning to outright dismissal.   
Students are advised to read these regulations in conjunction w ith the University’s general Regulation 
governing the award of Degree and Examination Guidelines, which  follow on pages 20 to 36, for more 

--- Page 8 ---

  
comprehensive information about the University, its general reg ulations and the conduct of its 
academic affairs. 
 
THE IT CENTRE 
The information Technology Centre (IT Centre) of the University of Buea is the nerve centre of computing 
power in the University of Buea, and serves also as a gateway t o the external world.  The centre has an 
added advantage over similar centres around the country in that  it simultaneously runs a fully equipped 
ultra-modern Cyber Centre where Internet and office automation services are available for use in teaching, 
research and training purpose. 
 
The IT Centre has been operational since 29 July 2002.  The Cen tre was the first of its kind in the entire 
South West Region.  It has a stable and reliable Internet Conne ction to the outside world.  Until recently, 
Internet connectivity to the University is ensured by CAMTEL through an optic fibre trunk with an uplink 
and downlink of 5Mbps respectively. 
 
Aims of the IT Centre 
 Facilitate the teaching and learning process 
 Facilitate research for both lecturers and students 
 Assure the development and maintenance of the IT infrastructure of the University. 
 Ease communication with the outside world 
 Promote and upgrade individual knowledge in Information and Communication Technology. 
 Reflect the dynamic and well-kept image of UB both nationally and internationally 
 Make Internet services affordable to students and the entire university community; and  
 Show ample proof of UB’s involvement in the electronic media, t echnological know-how and a 
reliable infrastructure for Information and Communication Technology (ICTs). 
 
Services offered by the IT Centre 
The UB ITC offers wide range of services, which include: 
 
SERVICES    SPECIFICATION   PRICE 
 
Internet Access                                               60 mins   150F 
 
Printing     Black /white (per page)   50F/page 
      Color                                       100-500F 
 
Scanning     Picture/Document  150F    
   
Wide Campus Wireless              S taff/Students/Public  200F 
        
Internet     For file transfer and exchange 
      O n  c a m p u s  
IT Support                                                       The entire University              …… 
 
THE LOCAL CISCO ACADEMY  
The University runs a local CISCO Network Academy in collaboration with the Regional Academy at the 
University of Yaoundé I, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the CISCO system of 
the USA.  At the end of the programme you become a CISCO Certif ied Network Associate and an IT 
Technician. 
 
Courses include CISCO CCNA (Routing and Switching) and IT Essen tials.  The Academy has a well-
equipped laboratory with Internet facility. 

--- Page 9 ---

  
 
REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE AWARD OF DEGREES IN THE FACULTIES 
The present general regulations apply to all students of the University, however, students of the Faculty of 
Health Sciences and ASTI and other specialized faculties have a dditional provisions that are specific to 
their disciplines. 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
1. Instruction at the University of Buea shall be organized on the  Semester Course Credit System; 
students shall be required to take approved combinations of cou rses as the Senate, on the 
recommendation of the appropriate Faculty Board, may from time to time determine. 
2. Courses shall be evaluated in terms of course credits.  One credit shall be the equivalent of ten hours 
of student’s effort or 15 hours of student’s effort in Engineering corresponding to 60 contact hours. 
 
3. Each course shall be assigned 6 credits, except as otherwise ap proved by Senate on the 
recommendation of the Faculty Board. 
 
4. A session at the University of Buea shall consist of 2 semesters of 15 weeks each. 
5. Each student shall be expected t o register for all courses in t he programme which he/she intends to 
pursue in an academic year at the beginning of the first semest er.  Such courses shall be entered on 
the prescribed Registration forms and shall be lodged with the Faculty Officer. 
 
 
6. Registration for a course shall not be deemed complete until a student has personally handed over all 
the completed registration forms to the Faculty Officer who shall duly acknowledge receipt of them. 
 
7. Registration for courses should be completed by the deadline prescribed by Senate on the University 
Calendar.  Students shall not write examinations in courses for which they are not duly registered. 
 
8. In accordance with the philosophy of the University which aims, among other things, at providing a 
broad-based and balanced education, the university requires that the student be knowledgeable in the 
science and humanities, as well as in Cameroon’s two languages.   Each student shall consequently 
be required to pass in a General Study’s course (Civics and Eth ics) as well as courses in the Use of 
English, Functional French, Sports and Information Technology skills. 
 
9.  COURSE TERMINOLOGY 
The following terminology shall be used for the different categories of courses: 
a) Compulsory:  A course specified for a degree/programme which a student must take and pass before 
graduation. 
b) Elective:  A course which a student may choose in order to make  up the required additional credits 
for the award of a degree. 
c) Prerequisite:  A course whose knowledge is essential for another specified course 
d) Concurrent:  A specified course at the same level which must be taken during the same semester. 
e) Required:  A course specified by a Department which students must take.  The minimum standard to 
be attained by students offering such a course is D to earn credit. 
 
10. A prerequisite shall be fulfilled by attaining a pass in the co urse.  However, a student who fails the 
course but scores a minimum of D in it shall be deemed to have met the prerequisite requirement, but 
will not earn any credit for the course if it is compulsory for his/her programme. 
 

--- Page 10 ---

  
CHANGE OF FACULTY OR DEPARTMENT AND PROCEDURE FOR ADDING OR 
DROPPING COURSES AND SUSPENSION OF STUDIES 
 
11. Students are not permitted to change the major for which admiss ion was offered.  Exceptionally, 
however, changes may be approved as prescribed in article 15 – 17 below. 
 
12. Students who wish to change any course for which they registered may do so upon completion of the 
form designed for the purpose during the prescribed period. 
 
13. The time limit within which students shall be allowed to drop or add courses on their list of registered 
courses shall be two weeks from the start of classes. 
14. Students who wish to change department within the same faculty or to transfer to another Faculty 
shall be required to fulfill the requirements for entry into th e new Department, except as otherwise 
recommended by the Faculty Board and approved by Senate. 
 
15. A student authorized to transfer from one Faculty or Department  to another shall be credited with 
those course where a pass mark was obtained which are within the curriculum of the new programmes 
as Department or Faculty may consider acceptable, but shall not carry forward failed grades obtained 
hitherto. 
 
16. Application for change of programmes shall be considered at the end of the academic year and shall 
only take effect from the beginning of the next academic year after approval by senate. 
 
17. A student who wishes to suspend studies must apply before the e nd of the semester(s) which the 
student wishes to suspend. 
 
SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATION OF REGISTRATION AND COURSE RELATED 
REQUIREMENTS 
 
18. To qualify for suspension of studies, a student must be in acad emic good standing and also show 
proof of mitigating circumstances. 
 
19. A student who abandons his/her s tudies for four consecutive wee ks without just cause shall be 
suspended.  Such a student shall have to apply to Senate for re-admission. 
 
20. A student who is absent for two consecutive sessions without ju st cause shall automatically forfeit 
his/her status as a student. 
 
21. Any student who registered for a course but failed to sit the c orresponding examination for no just 
cause shall score zero in the course(s) for which he/she regist ered.  Students who for justifiable 
reasons, such as ill-health, don not sit for end-of-course exam ination shall be given ‘I’ grade 
(incomplete).  They will be allowed to re-sit the examination at the next opportunity. 
 
22. For a candidate to qualify to sit for an examination in a cours e, he/she must have attained at least 
seventy percent (70%) attendance at lectures, tutorials and practical in that course. 
 
23. Students should be duly registered in only one Faculty 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 11 ---

  
DECREES OFFERED 
 
24. A programme of study in a Faculty of the University of Buea shall lead to the award of a degree. 
 
25. Faculties may offer the following degrees: 
Bachelor’s degrees 
Master’s degrees, and  
Doctorate degrees 
 
BACHELOR’S DEGREES 
 
26. The duration for a programme of study for the Bachelor’s degree shall be 6 semesters or 8 semesters 
or such other number of semesters as may be prescribed by Senate. 
 
27. The number of course credits required for the award of a Bachelor’s Degree shall be as approved by 
Senate on the recommended of the Faculty Board, but shall not i n any case be less than 180 credits 
for a six semester degree programme or 240 credits for an eight semester degree program, in addition 
to general university requirements.  He/she must have at least a Grade Point Average (GPA) of 2.00 
on a scale of 4.0. 
 
28. The required number of credits to qualify for the major in a discipline shall be 120 in a single honours 
degree.  Students’ enrolled in double major degree programme must earn at least 130 credits in each 
major discipline.  The required number of credits to qualify for a minor in a discipline shall be at least 
36 and at most 48. 
 
COURSE EVALUATION 
 
29.  Performance in courses for Bachelor’s Degree programmes shall be recorded according to the 
following schedule: 
 
MRK/100 LETTER 
GRADE 
GRADE 
PIONTS 
EVALUATION 
80 – 100 A 4.00 EXCELLENT 
70 – 79 B+ 3.50 VERY GOOD 
60- 69 B 3.00 GOOD 
55 -59 C+ 2.50 FAIR 
50 – 54 C 2.00 AVERAGE 
45 – 49 D+ 1.50 BELOW AVERAGE 
40 – 44 D 1.00 POOR 
0 - 39 F 0 FAIL 
 
 
30. The final aggregate mark for a course shall be a whole number.  Letter grades and grade points shall 
be awarded on the basis of the final aggregate mark. 
 
31. In order to determine the Grade Point Average of a candidate, t he appropriate grade points assigned 
to the corresponding letter grade is multiplied by the credit v alue of the course. The products are 
added for all courses registered for and the sum divided by the total number of credits registered for.  
The quotient so obtained is the G.P.A. 
 
 

--- Page 12 ---

  
COURSE GRADE GRADE 
POINTS 
CREDIT 
VALUE 
WEIGHTED 
POINTS 
CHM201 A 6 4.0 24.0 
CHM203 B+ 6 3.5 21.5 
MAT201 B 6 3.0 18.0 
CSC201 C 6 2.0 12.0 
CPT205 B+ 6 3.5 21.0 
ENG 101 C+ 2 2.5 5.0 
TOTAL 32  101.0 
 
  GPA = 101/32 = 3.16 
 
32. To earn credit for a course the student must score a minimum of  50% (C) in that course if this is 
compulsory.  Students may gain credit in the case of an electiv e/required course if they score 40% 
(D).  In any event, the total number of D grades for which cred it is earned may not exceed 10% of 
the total credits required for the degree programme. 
 
33. All courses shall be examined by continuous assessment through assignments and / or tests and 
examination.  The grades obtained through such continuous asses sment shall constitute 30%.  
However, Faculties may propose different proportions for particular courses, subject to the approval 
of Senate.  In any case, the proportions may not exceed a 50:50  ratio for continuous assessment and 
final examinations. 
 
34. If a student obtains a pass mark in a course after re-sitting the course once or any subsequent number 
of times, the final mark given shall be the average of the mark s obtained in the different sittings if 
this average of the marks obtained in the different sittings is  higher than 50 percent or 50 percent if 
the average obtained is less than 50 percent.  Only this averag e mark shall be used to calculate the 
student’s cumulative grade point average (G.PA).  The fail mark  shall no longer enter into the 
calculation of the cumulative grade point average (GPA). 
 
34. For a student to remain in academic good standing, that is not be asked to withdraw from the degree 
programme in his/her faculty, the following conditions must be satisfied: 
 
In each semester, the student shall register for courses totali ng not less than 24 credits and not more 
than 32 credits. In exceptional cases and with the approval of the Dean of the Faculty, a student in good 
standing may be allowed to register for courses totaling up to,  but not exceeding 38 credits. The only 
exception to the minimum credit load shall be for students who have completed the normal period of 
study for a particular number of credits for those course requi red for the obtention of their respective 
degrees. 
 
35. A student who fails to obtain 32 credits at the end of the first session (2 semesters), 64 credits by the 
end of the second session (4 semesters), 96 credits by the end of the third session (6 semesters) or 
128 credits by the end of the fourth session (8 semesters) may b e  a s k e d  t o  w i t h d r a w  f r o m  t h e  
University. 
 
36. At the end of each semester, any student with GPA of less than 2.0 shall be put on probation and shall 
be warned in writing by the Dean of the Faculty. Any student wi th a  GPA o f le ss tha n 1.0 in t wo 
consecutive semesters shall be required to withdraw from the University. 
 
37. A student with GPA of 3.25 or more at the end of any semester shall qualify to be placed on the Dean’s 
list of excellence while any student with a GPA of 3.5 and above shall qualify to be placed on the Vice-
chancellor’s list of excellence on condition that the student c arried a full load and was not subject to 
any sanction.  
 

--- Page 13 ---

  
38. A student who has taken more than two semesters in excess of th e approved period of study to 
complete a Bachelor’s Degree programme shall not be eligible for an honors classification. 
 
39. The authorization of Senate shall be obtained in all cases of c onsideration for a pass degree for any 
student who has spent more than four semesters in excess of the  number approved in paragraph 24 
above. 
 
40. A student who is duly registered at the University may seek deferment of studies on condition that such 
deferment does not exceed four semester; after that, registrati on will lapse and the candidate wishing 
would be expected to re-apply. 
 
41. All courses taught during each semester shall be examined at th e end of the semester. Students shall 
earn the number of credits assigned to the course for which they have passed the examination following 
the schedule provided in paragraph 29 above. 
 
42. Re-sit examinations in selected courses shall be offered to reg ularly registered students at the end of 
the examination sessions according to a schedule approved by senate. 
 
43. Examination results shall be released to students at the end of  each examination session. Transcripts 
shall be issued to students at the end of each session. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evaluation of Teaching 
 
44. This form is designed to provide an opportunity for students to evaluate teaching. It`s for them to fill it 
and returned it to the Department concerned, regardless of whether they have favourable or critical things 
to say. It will be read by the Head of Department, and then by the Lecturer concerned, and will allow the 
University Administration to make appropriate changes to the course. The student is free to sign the form 
or remain anonymous. 
45. Faculty of ____________________________________________________________ 
Course Code: ____________________________________________________________ 
Lecturer`s Name: _________________________________________________________ 
Your degree Programme: _________________Year in programme ________________ 
Student’s Gender: Male  Female 
The student shouldrate each of the following concerns in terms of the following scale: 
5 = Excellent or Very Well, 4 = Very good or well, 3 = Good or fairly well, 2 = Average, 1 = Poor, 0 = Not 
observed /Not available 

--- Page 14 ---

  
 
i. Student’s overall assessment of the course 
ii. Course outline given by instructor  
iii. Reading list (text books and other materials)  
provided by instructor  
iv. Instructor’s knowledge of the subject 
v. Instructor’s preparedness for class 
vi. Presentation of lectures 
vii. Availability of teaching aids 
viii. Use of teaching aids 
ix. Student’s academic gains/learning during the course 
x. Student’s interest in reading more about the subject  
as a result of taking of the course 
x. Student’s preparedness for each lecture   
xii.Student’s participation in lectures 
xiii. Student’s participation in tutorials 
xiv. Relevance of course to your degree programme 
 
xv. The preparedness of the student in continuous assessment test 
 
 
 5 4 3 2 1 0 
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       

--- Page 15 ---

 
 
 
16. How often did the lecturerask questions to increase your understanding during class? 
Very often  often   fairly often   hardly   never 
17.Mention any ways in which you think the course can be improved 
 
45. CLASSIFICATION OF BACHELOR’S DEGREE 
4.3 Bachelor’s Degree shall be classified as follows: 
- First Class Honors 
- Second Class (Upper Division) Honors 
- Second Class (Lower Division) Honors 
- Third Class Honors 
- Pass 
The class of degree awarded shall be based on the final cumulative Grade Point Average as follows: 
- First Class Honors     3.60 – 4.00 
- Second Class (Upper Division) Honors   3.00 – 3.59 
- Second Class (Lower Division) Honors   2.50 – 2.99 
- Third Class Honors     2.25 – 2.49 
- Pass       2.00 – 2.24 
 
MASTER’S DEGREES 
46. The Master’s Degree programme i s a postgraduate programme desig ned for specialization in a 
particular domain. 
 
47. The duration of the Master’s Degree shall be 4 semesters but shall not exceed 6 semesters 
 
48. To be admitted for the Master’s Degree, candidates must have at least a Bachelor’s Degree with 
Second Class Honors or any other equivalent diploma. 
 
49. The Master’s Degree shall be awarded after successful completio n of course work based on the 
course credit system and research work. 
 
50. The Master’s Degree shall be awarded to candidates who have earned 120 credits including those 
resulting from research work which shall be defended before a p anel. He/she must have a GPA 
of at least 2.00 
 
51. Performance in course for the Master’s Degree shall be recorded as follows: 
 
MARK/100 LETTER 
GRADE 
GRADE 
POINTS 
EVALUATION 
80 – 100 A 4.00 EXCELLENT 
70 – 79 B+ 3.50 VERY GOOD 
60 – 69 B 3.00 GOOD 
55 – 59 C+ 2.50 FAIR 
50 – 54 C 2.00 AVERAGE 
45 – 49 D+ 1.50 BELOW AVERAGE 
40 – 44 D 1.00 POOR 
00 – 39 F 0.00 FAIL 
 
To earn credit for a course at the Master’s Degree level, the s tudent must score at least a C grade. 
The panel for the defence of the Master’s thesis shall be compo sed of at least three persons chose 
amongst academic staff in the ranks of lecturers, Associate or Full Professors, designated by the 
Vice-chancellor on the recommendation of the Dean of the Faculty after consultation with the Head 
of Department and the Post-graduate Coordinator. 
 

--- Page 16 ---

 
 
 
DOCTORATE DEGREES 
52. The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) programme shall be selective and open to holders of a Master’s 
degree or an equivalent qualification. 
 
53. The degree of Doctor of Philosophy shall be conferred upon the successful completion of the 
approved programme of study which shall include the successful defence of thesis written by the 
candidate. 
 
54. After the successful completion of two to four semesters of cou rse work based on the course 
credit system and on passing the Comprehensive Examination, a c andidate may be issued an 
attestation to that effect. 
 
55. Performance in course for the Doctor of Philosophy degree progr ammed shall be recorded as 
follows: 
 
MARK/100 LETTER 
GRADE 
GRADE 
POINTS 
EVALUATION 
80 – 100 A 4.0 EXCELLENT 
70 – 79 B+ 3.5 VERY GOOD 
60 – 69 B 3.0 GOOD 
55 – 59 C+ 2.5 FAI R
50 – 54 C 2.0 AVERAGE
45 – 49 D+ 1.5 BELOW AVERAGE 
40 – 44 D 1.0 POOR 
00– 39 F 0.0 FAIL 
 
 
56. The duration of studies for the Doctor of Philosophy Degree shall be 3 years and a maximum of 
5 years. This period may be extended by one or two years (2 to 4 semesters) by Senate on the 
recommendation of the Faculty Board. 
 
57. The first year of the Doctorate programme shall be devoted to c ourse work and acquisition of 
research techniques. 
 
58. A student shall be considered as having successfully completed the first year after the obtention 
of 60 credits; such a student would then be eligible to take the Comprehensive Examination. 
 
59. After successfully completing the Comprehensive Examination the  candidate shall be expected 
to deposit the research proposal at the department. 
 
60. On the recommendation of the Department, the Dean of the Facult y shall appoint 
supervisor/supervisors to guide the candidate’s research. 
 
61. The duties of these supervisors may be assigned to academic staff of the following grades: 
 
Professors 
Associate Professors 
Lecturers with terminal qualification (PhD, “Doctorat” or equivalent) 
 
62. The thesis submitted for a defence shall constitute an original contribution to knowledge and shall 
be defended before a duly appointed panel. Such a panel shall comprise a chairperson, an external 
examiner, an internal examiner and the supervisor. 
 
 
 

--- Page 17 ---

 
 
 
PROGRAMMES OFFERED 
Current programmes in the various Establishments lead to the following degrees; course descriptions 
of which are contained in the University Catalogue. 
 
Faculty of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine   Degrees 
Agronomic and Applied Molecular Sciences with 2 specialties  B. Sc. 
Crop Production       B.Sc. 
Plant Health Management      B.Sc. 
Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness    B.Sc. 
Animal Production       Ph.D. 
F i s h e r i e s          P h . D .  
 
 
Faculty of Arts 
English Language       B.A.; M.A.; Ph.D. 
Literatures in English       B.A.; M.A. Ph.D. 
Performing and Visual Arts      B.A. 
A m e r i c a n  L i t e r a t u r e        M . A .  
Comparative Literature      M.A.; PhD 
African Literature       PhD 
English and French       B.A. 
F r e n c h  S t u d i e s         B . A .  P h D  
Teaching of French as Foreign Language    M.A. 
History        B.A.; M.A.; Ph.D. 
Linguistics        B.A. 
Applied Linguistics       M.A.; Ph.D. 
Theoretical Linguistics      M.A.; Ph.D. 
 
Faculty of Education 
Curriculum Studies and Teaching     B.Ed; M.Ed.; Ph.D. 
Educational Foundations and Administration    M.Ed.; PhD  
Educational Psychology      B.Ed.; M.Ed.; Ph.D. 
Nursery and Primary Education     B.Ed.; 
Special Education       B.Ed.; M.Ed.; Ph.D. 
Guidance and Counseling      M.Ed.   
 
Faculty of Engineering and Technology 
Computer Engineering       B.ENG  
Electrical and Electronic Engineering    B.ENG  
Mechanical Engineering      B.ENG 
Civil Engineering       B.ENG 
 
Faculty of Health Sciences 
N u r s i n g          B N S ,  M N E  
P u b l i c  H e a l t h         M P H  
Medical Microbiology and Parasitology    M.Sc.  
Chemical Pathology        M.Sc. 
Medical Laboratory Science      BMLS. 
M e d i c i n e         M D  
 
Faculty of Science 
B i o c h e m i s t r y         B . S c . ;  M . S c . ;  P h D  
Biochemistry and Clinical Laboratory Technology   B.Sc. 

--- Page 18 ---

 
 
 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology     B.Sc. 
B o t a n y          B . S c . ;  M . S c . ;  P h D  
C h e m i s t r y         B . S c . ;  M . S c . ;  P h D  
Cellular and Molecular Parasitology     Ph.D. 
Computer Science       M.Sc.; PhD 
C r o p  P r o t e c t i o n        M . S c .  
Chemistry and Clinical Laboratory Technology   B.Sc. 
Epidemiology and Control of Infectious Diseases   M.Sc.  
E n v i r o n m e n t a l  S c i e n c e       B . S c . ;  M . S c .  
Clinical Laboratory Technology     B.Sc. 
G e o l o g y         B . S c . ;  M . S c . ;  P h D  
M a t h e m a t i c s         B . S c . ;  M . S c . ;  P h D  
Microbiology        B.Sc.; M.Sc.; PhD 
M o l e c u l a r  B i o l o g y        B . S c .  
Molecular Diagnostic Science     M.Sc. 
Molecular Parasitology and Vector Biology    M.Sc. 
Natural Resource and Environmental Management   M.Sc. 
P a r a s i t o l o g y         B . S c .  
P h y s i c s         B . S c . ;  M . S c . ;  P h D  
Zoology        B.Sc.; M.Sc.; PhD 
Zoology and Clinical Laboratory Technology   B.Sc. 
F i s h e r i e s         P h D .  
Animal Production       PhD. 
 
Faculty of Social and Management Sciences  
A c c o u n t a n c y         B . S c . ;  M . S c ;  P h . D  
Banking and Finance       B.Sc.; M.Sc; Ph.D 
E c o n o m i c s          B . S c . ;  M . S c ;  P h . D .  
M a n a g e m e n t          B . S c . ;  M . S c  
Master’s in Business Administration     MBA 
G e o g r a p h y         B . S c . ;  M . S c ;  P h . D .  
Journalism and Mass Communication    B.Sc.; M.Sc; PhD 
L a w          L L . B ,  L L M ,  P h D .  
P o l i t i c a l  S c i e n c e        B . S c . ;  M . S c  
Sociology and Anthropology      B.Sc.; M.Sc 
Women and Gender Studies      B.Sc.; M.Sc, PhD 
 
Advanced school of Translators and Interpreters 
T r a n s l a t i o n         M . A  
Interpretation         M.A 
 
College of Technology 
Computer Engineering       B.TECH/HND 
Electrical and Electronic Engineering     B.TECH/HND 
 
63. Other degrees may be awarded as the need arises on the recommendation of Senate 
 
64. Professional minors are available in computer Science, Chemical Process Technology, Materials 
Science, Horticulture, Medical Laboratory Technology, and Library Science. 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 19 ---

 
 
 
EXAMINATION GUIDELINES 
1. All students who are duly registered for courses in a given sem ester are eligible to sit for 
examinations in those courses except students in the following categories: 
a) A student who absents himself from the University for upwards of six weeks without official 
permission; 
b) A student who fails to attend up to 70% of any tutorials or practical in a course. 
 
2. Students must acquaint themselves with the instructions governing examinations. 
 
3. Students must be punctual for their papers. Students arriving l ater than half an hour after the 
examination has started shall not be admitted into the examination hall.  
 
4. Students must bring with them to the examination hall their own ink, pen, ruler, eraser and pencil 
and any materials which may be permitted by regulations. Studen ts are warned that if not 
otherwise indicated, lecture notes, cellular phones, textbooks, jotters, bags, calculators etc are not 
allowed in the examination hall. 
 
5. To ensure order in the examination hall, seats will be arranged according to the number of groups 
taking examinations at each par ticular time and candidates are not expected in the hall earlier 
than 10minutes to the commencement of each examination. They are also advised to keep strictly 
to the sitting arrangements to avoid confusion. Chairs arranged  in examination halls should not, 
under any circumstances, be removed by any student. 
 
6. Once inside the examination hall, communication between students is strictly forbidden. 
 
7. Silence must be observed in the examination hall. The only perm issible way to attract the 
attention of the invigilator is by raising a hand. 
 
8. Smoking in the examination hall is strictly forbidden. 
 
9. The use of scrap paper is not permitted. All rough work must be done in the answer books, crossed 
neatly through and submitted along with the answer booklet .. 
 
10. Students must use their registration number for each examination. 
 
11. Before handing in their scripts at the end of the examination, students must satisfy themselves 
that they have inserted in the appropriate places, their regist ration numbers and the numbers of 
the questions answered. 
 
12. It is forbidden to make distinctive marks of any kind on the answer booklets. Only blue or black 
ink is allowed for writing on examination answer booklets. 
 
13. Students must not leave the examination hall during the first 3 0minutes and the last 50 minutes 
of any examination. 
 
14. Students must remain seated until invigilators have completed c
ollection of answer booklets. 
 
15. Students are required to sign against, their registration numbers on the attendance sheet. 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 20 ---

 
 
 
Examinations Misconduct and Disciplinary Sanctions  
16. In conformity with decree N o 93/027 of 19 January 1993 fixing common regulations to all 
Universities particularly in its articles 61, 62, 63, 64, 65 an d 66; it shall be an offence for any 
student, staff or any persons whosoever to impersonate a student in any University examination. 
Any student or staff or the University found guilty under this regulation shall be subjected to 
disciplinary sanction but this does not preclude prosecution by the law enforcement authorities. 
 
17. Any student or staff who attempts in any way to unlawfully have  or give pre-knowledge or an 
examination question or to influence the marking of scripts or the award of marks by the examiner 
shall be subject to disciplinary sanction. 
 
18. If any student is suspected of cheating, assistance or assisting other students or of infringing any 
other examination regulation, a written report of the circumsta nces shall be submitted by the 
invigilator to the Dean/Director within 24 hours of the examination. 
 
19. Any student suspected to have cheated, received assistance or a ssisted another student shall be 
required to submit written statement to the invigilator immedia tely after the paper. Failure to 
make such a statement shall be regarded an admission of guilt. 
 
20. The Dean/Director shall promptly set up a disciplinary panel made up of : 
- The Dean/Director     Chairperson 
- Vice-Dean/Deputy Director    Vice-Chairperson 
- 1 member designated by the Dean   Member 
- 1 member designated by the Vice-chancellor  Member 
- 1 representative of Faculty Students’ Association  Member 
 
The report of such investigation with a recommendation of sanctions shall be submitted to the Vice-
chancellor. 
Where the Vice-Chancellor is satisfied that a student has commi tted a breach of any of these 
regulations, such a student shall be deemed to have committed an examination offence and the Vice-
Chancellor may: 
a) Give public notice of the fact that an offence has been committed by that student; 
b) Give a written warning to the student which may be accompanied with partial or total 
suspension of all aid or assistance from the University; 
c) Suspend the student from any university examination for the session in question together with 
suspension of all aid or assistance; 
d) Recommend to the Minister in charge of Higher Education that th e student be suspended 
temporarily from the University for one or two sessions; 
e) Recommend to the Minister in charge of Higher Education that the student be dismissed from 
the University and not be allowed to attend any other University institution in the country.   
 
21. Where the Vice-Chancellor has reason to believe that the nature of any question or the content of 
any paper may have been known before the date and time of the examination to any persons other 
than the examiner(s) of the paper, the Board of Examiners and a ny official of the University 
authorized to handle the paper, he/she may order the suspension  of the examination or the 
cancellation of the paper or the setting of a new paper and sha ll report the matter to senate. The 
Vice-Chancellor shall take any disciplinary measure against the
 staff/student as provided for by 
the regulations in force. 
 
22. Any student or member of the academic staff may lodge a petitio n with the Vice-Chancellor 
through the Dean of Faculty or Director of School if they feel that the examination has been 
improperly conducted. The Vice-Chancellor shall investigate the complaint and report the result 

--- Page 21 ---

 
 
 
of the investigation to senate which shall take actions as it may deem appropriate, including 
withholding results or deprivation of the award of a degree/diploma etc. 
 
Absence from Examination 
23. Students must present themselves at such University Examination for which they have registered 
under these regulations. Students, who fail to do so for reason s other than accidents or illness 
duly justified by a medical report from the University’s Chief Medical Officer or exceptional 
cases, shall be deemed to have failed that examination. Mis-rea ding of the timetable and such 
lapses on the part of the students shall not be accepted as a satisfactory explanation for absence. 
 
24. A student who falls ill during an examination shall report in w r i t i n g  t o  t h e  D e a n  o r  
Faculty/Director of School. 
 
25. A student who is absent from an examination on account of illne ss confirmed by medical 
evidence from the Head of the University Health Services shall take the regular examination on 
the following occasion without repeating the course concerned i f he so desires. Approval for 
make-up examinations shall be given by senate on the recommendation of the Faculty Board. 
 
THE LIBRARY 
 
1. General Regulations 
i. The Buea University Library shall comprise such premises and li brary collections and 
resources as may be designated from time to time – including: 
 
The main Library 
Faculty/School/Libraries 
University Archives 
Departmental Libraries 
University Bookshop 
University Press 
 
ii. These regulations shall apply to all constituent parts or the B uea University Library, except 
where other provisions are included within these regulations or  published in the library 
concerned. 
iii. The library is open for the purpose of study and research to: 
a. Members of the University of Buea Council; 
b. Current members of staff of the University of Buea and its affiliated schools; 
c. Registered students of the University of Buea and its affiliated schools; 
d. Other students taking courses in the University; 
e. Graduates and retired staff members in good standing with the University of Buea; 
f. Members of other institutions affiliated with the University of Buea; 
g. Persons who can prove to the libr arian or any authorized person nel that they are 
engaged in academic research. 
 
iv. All users must possess valid (current) library cards and identi ty cards. These must be 
presented to any library official upon entering the library and on request. Admissions may be 
refused to any body who does not do so. Authorization to use the library is not transferable. 
 
v. Applicants for a library card who are not members of the univer
sity community may be 
required to present evidence of status and or a letter of recommendation. 
 
vi. The Librarian in consultation with the senate Library and Publi cations Committee will from 
time to time prescribe fees to be charged to certain categories of card holders. 

--- Page 22 ---

 
 
 
 
vii. Exhibitions in the Buea university Library (BUL)are open to the public.   
 
2. Opening Hours 
 
i). Main Library facilities are available as follows: 
 
Semester period:   
Mondays through Fridays:   8a.m. – 9p.m 
Saturdays:     8a.m – 3p.m 
 
Vacations:  
 Mondays through Fridays   8a.m – 3p.m. 
 
Public Holidays     C l o s e d  
 
*Certain services may be available on Saturdays 
ii).Any modification of the above opening hours will be displayed throughout the University Library 
and in key areas on campus before the date of operation.  
 
iii) Other University Libraries where and when they exist are open at such hours as displayed in each. 
 
3. Loan Facilities and Conditions for Borrowing 
 
(i). Subject to the terms set out in this section, the following persons may borrow from the library: 
 a). Those stipulated in ca tegories (a), (b), (c), above 
b) Other persons who, on application to the librarian, may in e xceptional circumstances            
receive authorization to borrow. 
 
(ii) Users must return all books to the library before embracing on substantial leave of absence away 
from the University or from their reference address. 
 
4. Printed Items 
a) Printed items listed in the library’s catalogue or databases ar e normally available for 
borrowing unless they form part of the reference collection, or  other collection designated 
“Not to be taken out of the library”. In special circumstances some of these items may be 
borrowed by arrangements with the Librarian. 
 
b) All periodicals may not normally be borrowed. 
 
5. Non Book Materials (Audio-Visual) 
 
a) All loans shall be authorized by a member of the library staff at the circulation desk. Users 
shall present their current library cards and borrower’s ticket(s) each time they wish to borrow 
material. 
 
b) Items in the reserve (short loan) collection may not be removed  from the collection unless 
issued on loan by a member of the library staff at the circulat ion desk. Borrowing from the 
Reserve Collection is normally restricted to registered student s and academic staff of the 
University. 
 
c) No item on loan may be transferred from one user to another. Th e user in whose name the 
loan is made is solely responsible for the safe keeping and due return of the item(s) borrowed. 
 

--- Page 23 ---

 
 
 
6. Loan Periods 
 
Loan periods for any category of material or users shall be det ermined from time to time by the 
Librarian in consultation with the library committee. 
 
a) Five books may be borrowed at a time for up to two weeks by any authorized user except for 
short loan or reserve collection items. 
 
b) Items may be renewed if not requested for by another user 
 
c) Any item(s) on loan is recalled at any time if required by the library for another user or for 
placing on the reserve collection and the user(s) must return t he item(s) within three days of 
the issue of the recall notice. 
 
d) Failure to return the recalled items within the specified time may result in the imposition of a 
fine as provided under paragraph (7) below. 
 
e) All items borrowed must be returned within the loan period stip ulated. Failure to do so may 
result in the imposition of a fine provided for in paragraph (7) below 
 
7. Fines 
i. Fines shall be charged at rates determined from time to time by  the Librarian and in 
consultation with the Senate Library and Publications Committee 
 
ii. The present fine is 100F CFA per item per day. 
 
iii. Failure to pay the fine imposed for late return may result in t he suspension of library 
privileges. 
 
8. Damaged or lost items 
 
Where an item is lost, return damaged, or not returned after th e specified period, the borrower will 
be charged double the cost of three items, together with approp riate administrative costs. An item 
charged for as above remains the property of the library. Failure to pay may result in the suspension 
of library privileges and other administrative sanctions as sti pulated elsewhere by the University 
Senate, including legal proceedings. 
 
9. Admission to Degree, etc. 
Students who on completion of the programme fail to return all borrowed items to the library or fail 
to pay all outstanding charges and fines may find their admission to a higher degree or the award of 
a diploma or certificate withheld until such items are returned and the fines paid. 
 
10. Use of Material within the Library 
a) Library materials on open access shelves may be removed for use  within the library without 
referring to library staff. After use, such items should be lef t on the reading space provided 
or designated collection point. 
 
 
b) Library materials not on open access may be consulted by fillin g a slip provided at the 
circulation desk for this purpose. This slip must be presented to the library staff on duty. 
 
c) Special rules apply to non-book materials and other book items so designated. 
 

--- Page 24 ---

 
 
 
d) Users are not permitted to bring along any personal textbooks or printed matter into the 
library. All such books and other items shall be deposited at t he property room. The Library 
shall not accept responsibility for such property. 
 
e) No book or other library property may be taken out of the library without authorization. 
 
11. Other Library services 
Charges may be levied on services provided by the library such as inter-library loans, photocopying, 
binding, lamination, access to information technology on online  databases, telecommunication (e-
mail, facsimile or telephone) when and where these facilities e xist. The charge will be set by the 
Librarian in consultation with the Senate Library and Publication Committee. Rates may be applied 
according to the category of users. 
 
12. Conduct within the Library 
a) Noise, disturbance or behavior contrary to the University rules  and regulations is strictly 
forbidden in any area of the library. 
 
b) Smoking is not allowed in any area of the library. 
 
c) Eating and drinking is prohibited in the library 
 
d) Reading areas designated for use in conjunction with specific collection or subject areas must 
be used for consulting works from such collections or subject areas only. 
 
e) Users must take good care of library materials, equipment and furniture in their custody. The 
altering of the arrangement of furniture, fitting of equipment or misuse of furniture, is strictly 
forbidden. 
 
f) Users may not deface, mutilate, or write on any library book or  materials in their keeping. 
Such defected or mutilated items should be brought to the atten tion of library staff 
immediately, 
 
g) Any user(s) discovered to have pilfered part or a whole library  item will immediately be 
suspended from using the library, and the case transmitted to t he competent administrative 
authority of the University for Sanction which may include legal pursuit. 
 
h) The use of electronic equipment other than belonging to the library is prohibited. 
 
i) The distribution of hand bills, newspapers, or any other material other than those sanctioned 
by the library and University authorities is forbidden within the library. 
 
j) Users may not reserve reading places. Any books or materials placed on a reading space for 
more than 15 minutes by an absent reader will be removed and th e space allowed to other 
user by a library staff. No personal effects may be left overnight in the library. 
 
k) All users are expected to leave their bags or cases in the prop erty room. Such bags and/or 
cases may be searched by the security attendant or other librar
y staff designated at exit. The 
library is not responsible for any valuable left in such bags in the property/classrooms. 
 
l) The taking of photographs and the making of visual or sound recording within the library are 
not permitted without prior authority of the Librarian. 
 
m) The speaking of Pidgin English in the library is prohibited. 

--- Page 25 ---

 
 
 
 
13. Enforcement 
i. Failure to comply with the above regulations may in the first i nstance be dealt with by the 
Librarian or an authorized representative, who may impose tempo rary suspension form the 
library. In the case of defacement and/or mutilation of library  item(s) there may be an 
imposed fine for each offence up to the maximum sum determined by Senate in accordance 
with the provisions of the University rules and regulations. In  case of theft, the user will be 
barred from using the library, the case reported to the compete nt University authority 
(DVC/RCB) who may then refer it to the University Disciplinary Committee for sanction. 
 
ii. In the case of non-University of Buea users who are members of an institution or 
establishment, they shall immediately be barred from using the library, and will be requested 
to replace materials they have damaged, or stolen. Theymaybe open to legal sanction(s). 
 
MATRICULATION HYMN 
We all have come from far and wide 
To Fako’s fertile fields to seek 
The towering heights of academy 
We hope someday we’ll thrive 
We know beginnings to be hard 
We need hard work, abounding faith 
To take us through the times ahead 
Until someday we’ll triumph 
With gladsome heart and hopefulness 
And teaches all so full of cheer 
The lecture halls shall transformed  
To places so cheerful 
And learning shall be full of fun 
We hope the future shall be bright 
Someday we shall all stand up here 
And shout out we made it 
Then shall the world outside do brave 
Our knowledge put to test 
And our achievements all appraise 
And life’s journey begin 
Then shall we look back on past years 
When we stood to take the oath 
And subscribed to cherished principles 
Quality, excellence 
Our community shall be proud                           
Our endeavors will all acclaim 
When hope and steadfastness have thrived 
And proudly we shall stand 
Looking back at those yesteryears 
When we all did humbly begin 
To build the Varsity of Buea 
God Bless we all made it 

--- Page 26 ---

 
 
 
Dear parents, friends and well wishers 
Our plea goes up aloud to you 
Your support we so dearly need 
To make our dreams come true 
For someday we all do know that 
This child together we shall wean 
Celebrate its maturityIts coming of age 
(Lyrics by Hansel NdumbeEyoh) Buea, May 1993 
UB ANTHEM 
O Cameroon, Our glorious home 
Of mountain ranges, of plains and sea; 
May God be with thee. 
And we your proud children, 
How thankful we should be, 
To enroll in UB, 
The Place to Be. 
Though masters of our fate, 
And our own destiny, 
We pledge our loyalty, 
And service to UB. 
O Cameroon, Our glorious home, 
Of mountain ranges, of plains and sea; 
May God be with thee. 
Composed by Ndumbe Mosaso 
MATRICULATION OATH 
The Registrar shall say: 
In the belief that the Universit y of Buea stands for excellence , truth, moral rectitude and for the 
integrity of the individual and the nation; That the University  of Buea exists to serve the social, 
cultural and political institutions of Cameroon; That the Unive rsity of Buea exists to improve the 
quality of life of Cameroonians by preserving existing knowledg e through teaching and developing 
new knowledge through research; We call on all registered stude nts of the Faculties of Arts, 
Education, Health Sciences, Science and Social and Management S ciences to rise and take the 
matriculation oath of the University of Buea. 
The Students shall rise and say: 
“I do on my honor promise to obey the rules and regulations gui ding student conduct and discipline 
in the University of Buea; I understand that the University of Buea expects its students to be honest 
in all their academic work and agree to adhere to this commitme nt to academic honesty and to the 
general regulations governing academic programmes”. 
 

--- Page 27 ---

 
 
 
The Vice-Chancellor shall say: 
“In the name of the Chancellor of the University of Buea and by virtue of the powers vested in me as 
Vice-Chancellor, I declare all these students duly matriculated  at the University of Buea for the 
current academic year”. 
 
 
 